SOURCE:

Reddit

URL:

https://www.reddit.com/r/rutgers/comments/1fioy6g/people_with_computer_science_majors_what_minors/

THREAD TITLE:

People with Computer Science majors, what minors have you chosen or you recommend?

POST:

I am declaring BS in CS and planning to do a minor. 
But I wanted some recommendations that which minors are helpful or overlap with my major’s course requirements, which is BS in computer science as in this case. help this poor freshman please

COMMENTS:

Best: Mathematics
Personal preference: Astronomy, Astrobiology, Meteorology
Popular (but useless) choice: Data Science
Less popular (but useful) option: statistics
I am doing Astrobiology minor btw

Ohh! I’m planning to do either Astronomy or Leadership in Communications as minor. 
I searched up that instead of astrophysics as minor they offer you as Astronomy but yeah

Good choice. Minor in whatever you like to explore.

What do you think about physics?

Physics works too. As I said before, minor in something you enjoy.

Popular courses that go well with a Computer Science major are Data Science, Information Technology, and Mathematics.
You can learn more about important ideas in computer science and improve your skills for possible job opportunities in the field by pursuing these courses.

Im also a cs freshman, a minor in math has by far the most overlap, it’s possible to get the math minor by only having to take 1 extra class (calc3) (you’d need to take math 300 and 477 instead of discrete 1 and 2, and two of your cs electives would need to be math)

a minor isn’t necessarily for a credit intensive major like CS
Still if you do want to minor, do something which interest you.
Business? Do business admin or entrepreneurship Math Economics Data Sci minor is mostly useless rn, so stats might be better ITI/Bait idk y but ppl do those minors w CS but still an option ig

Do what you are interested in, I'm majoring in Music along with CS, not bc the classes work well together (they don't, the music courses fulfill no sas core either :/) but because it's something I'm interested in.

I'm majoring in math and linguistics in addition to CS
Math overlaps a fuckton and is generally useful for CS majors; linguistics is more a passion major than anything else for me, but it's not credit-intensive and there are some areas where it overlaps (formal language, natural language processing, etc.)

